---
description: Pocket nodes require a DNS name.
---

# 1-3: Configure DNS

Pocket nodes require a DNS name. DNS ([Domain Name Service](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/dns/what-is-dns/)) names are used to map an IP address to more human-friendly names. So rather than rather than referencing a server with an address like `134.23.153.21` we can use a name like `node1.pokt.run`. 

For DNS records to work reliably, the name must be associated to an IP address that is reachable from the internet. Also, if the IP address of the server changes, the DNS record will need to be updated. For that reason, a static IP address is recommended. Otherwise, you'll need to use a dynamic IP update service but that is beyond the scope of this guide.

:::tip

 Most domain registrars allow you to add DNS records. Although the steps are usually similar, refer to the DNS setup documentation for your provider.

:::

Specifically, you'll need to add an `A` record for the domain name. For the specific steps, consult you're registrars DNS documentation. Then create a record with the following information:

- **Name**: `node1`
- **Type**: `A`
- **Value**: `{Linode_IP_Address}`
- **TTL**: `300`

After setting up your DNS record, wait a few minutes for the DNS to propagate. Then use the following command to check that the DNS record is working:

> NOTE: Replace the hostname in the following command with the hostname of your DNS record. Also, it can sometimes take longer than a minute for the DNS to propagate. So, be patient if things don't seem to work right away.

```bash
ping -c 3 node1.pokt.run
```
You should see a response that looks something like this:

```
64 bytes from 134.23.153.21: icmp_seq=0 ttl=47 time=92.403 ms
64 bytes from 134.23.153.21: icmp_seq=1 ttl=47 time=142.828 ms
64 bytes from 134.23.153.21: icmp_seq=2 ttl=47 time=182.456 ms
```

If the IP address matches the IP address of your Linode, you're all set!

Now that we have a DNS record setup, we will look at using SSH to login and continue the setup process.