# 2-2: Install Go

<iframe id="ytplayer" type="text/html" width="720" height="405"
src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Y7UTvIlHXRI?start=1683"
frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Go is the programming language that the Pocket software was written in. So, we'll need to install Go. We could install it using `apt-get` but we want to get the latest stable version which probably isn't available in the `apt-get` repository. So, we'll use the steps below to install Go.

1. Make sure you're in the pocket home directory.
   ```bash
    cd ~
  ```
2. Find the latest version of Go from https://golang.org/dl/ then download it with the following command:
   ```bash
    wget https://dl.google.com/go/go1.17.7.linux-amd64.tar.gz
    ```
    > Note: Change `go1.17.7.linux-amd64.tar.gz` to the most recent version of Go.
3. Extract the archive
    ```bash
     sudo tar -xvf go1.17.7.linux-amd64.tar.gz
     ```
4. Set permissions on the extracted files
    ```bash
     sudo chown -R pocket ./go
     ```
5. Set the `PATH` variable
    ```bash
     echo 'export PATH=$PATH:$HOME/go/bin' >> ~/.profile
     ```
6. Set the `GOPATH` and `GOBIN` variables
    ```bash
     echo 'export GOPATH=$HOME/go' >> ~/.profile
     ```
    ```bash
     echo 'export GOBIN=$HOME/go/bin' >> ~/.profile
     ```
7. Source the `.profile`
    ```bash
     source ~/.profile
     ```
8. Verify the installation
    ```bash
     go version
     ```
     You should see something like:
     ```bash
     go version go1.17.7 linux/amd64
     ```
     > Note: Make sure the version matches the version you downloaded.

    :::tip

    If `go version` doesn't work try logging out and logging back in. Then test the `go version` command again.

    :::


9. Verify the `GOPATH` and `GOBIN` variables are set correctly
    ```bash
     go env
     ```
     You should see the `GOPATH` and `GOBIN` variables set correctly.

## Having issues?

If you have issues getting the latest version of Go working, it might be because there is an older version of Go installed with apt-get. To remove the old version of Go, do the following:

```bash
sudo apt-get purge golang*
```

> Note: After doing this, you might need to reinstall Go. But first log out and log back in and test with `go version`.

After you can verify that you have the latest stable version of Go, you're ready to continue.